Your Account | English | Help | Sign out | Give Feedback 
Bookshelf | Reports | Community | Marketing
Help Topics
Help
KDP Help Center Home
Account & Taxes
Set up your KDP account
CreateSpace Account
Tax Information
Book Formatting
Format Your Paperback
Set Trim Size, Bleed, and Margins
Format Front Matter, Body Matter, and Back Matter
Save Your Manuscript File
Paperback and Hardcover Manuscript Templates
Cover Creator
Create a Paperback Cover
Format Images in Your Book
Paperback Fonts
Fix Paperback and Hardcover Formatting Issues
Paperback Submission Guidelines
Format Your Hardcover
Format Your eBook
Tools and Resources
KDP Publishing
Start publishing with KDP
Create a Book
Hardcover
Start a Book Series
Orders & Book Copies
Proof and Author Copies
Amazon Store & Detail Page
KDP Categories
Read Sample (Look Inside the Book)
Customer Reviews
Search Results
Link Your Books Together
Sales Ranking
Book Trends Data
Recaps
Marketing & Distribution
Guidelines for use of the Available at Amazon Badge by KDP Publishers
Ways to Promote Your Book
KDP Select
Author Central
A+ Content
Advertising for KDP books
Expanded Distribution
Merchandising Tips
Nominate Your eBook for a Promotion (Beta)
Book Updates
Update Your Book
Payments & Reports
Royalties
KDP Reports
KDP Payments
Legal & Content Guidelines
Kindle Direct Publishing Terms and Conditions
Program Policies
User Guides
Kindle Publishing Guidelines
KDP Jumpstart
KDP University
Contact Us
Have feedback? Can't find your answer in our Help pages?

Contact Us
Topic or Keyword
Search Help
Book Formatting Format Your Paperback Paperback Submission Guidelines
Paperback Submission Guidelines
These guidelines are for designers of paperbacks with full-color covers, with any interior type.
For help formatting your paperback manuscript, see our guides for Microsoft Word for Windows, Microsoft Word for Mac and Pages for Mac. You can also try our Kindle Create tool to format your paperback interiors.


Contents
Title creation limit
File guidelines
Manuscript
Cover
File specifications
Common points of failure
Cover specifications
Calculating cover size
Cover formatting
Spine measurements for black and white books
Spine measurements for color books
Spine text
Barcodes
Interior specifications
Page spreads
Page size
No bleed
Interior full bleed
Font
Image resolution
Pagination
Page count
Margins and alignment
Grayscale fill
Line width
Reading direction
Orientation

Title creation limit
To ensure a positive experience for all authors, we limit the number of titles you can create at the same time to 10 per book format each week. If you expect to regularly create a large number of titles, please contact us to inquire about an exception.

File guidelines

Manuscript
Bleed: If your book has images or elements that bleed to the edges of your pages, you must upload your manuscript as a PDF.
No Bleed: If your book does not contain bleed, you can upload your manuscript as a PDF, DOC, DOCX, RTF, HTML, or TXT file. KDP will automatically convert these file types to PDF prior to publishing/printing.
Note: For Japanese, Hebrew, Latin or Yiddish, you can only upload PDF.
Cover
You can create your book cover using KDP’s Cover Creator tool or submit your book cover in a PDF. (Cover Creator accepts JPG, PNG, and GIF file formats.)

File specifications
Ensure file size is not more than 650MB.
Embed all fonts and images in your native file prior to submission.
Flatten transparent objects and layers in the native file before publishing.
Submitted files should not contain crop marks, trim marks, bookmarks, comments, invisible objects, annotations, placeholder text, or metadata.
All images (both cover and manuscript) should be at least 300 DPI.
Optimize PDFs. Optimization is useful to reduce your file size, allowing for higher performance when transferring, uploading, viewing, and printing the files.
Common points of failure
Not flattening transparent objects and/or layers in the native file
Locked or encrypted files
Files with crop marks*, trim marks, bookmarks, comments, invisible objects, annotations, placeholder text, or metadata
Missing pages
Excessive blank pages
Title missing on the front cover
Barcode missing
Incorrect pagination
PDF creation logos or watermarks
*Crop marks are lines showing where pages should be trimmed.

Cover specifications

Calculating cover size
To format your paperback cover, you’ll first need to calculate the spine measurements (black and white books, color books).

Insert the spine measurements, selected trim size width and height, and the 0.125" (3.2 mm) bleed requirement into the following equations to find your cover size:
Cover Width = Bleed + Back Cover Width + Spine Width + Front Cover Width + Bleed
Cover Height = Bleed + Trim Height + Bleed
Cover formatting
Covers should be one continuous image centered left to right on the spine.
Flatten all layers in the native file.
Bleed of 0.125" (3.2 mm) is required on all sides. Bleed at the bottom of the page cannot exceed 0.125" (3.2 mm).
Any content you don’t intend to be trimmed off should be a minimum of 0.25" (6.4 mm) from the outside cover edge.
Embed all fonts on the cover in the native program before publishing.
Spine measurements for black and white books
White paper: page count x 0.002252" (0.0572 mm)
Cream paper: page count x 0.0025" (0.0635 mm)
Spine measurements for color books
Color paper: page count x 0.002347" (0.0596 mm)
Spine text
We only print spine text on books with more than 79 pages. Text on larger spines must be sized to fit the spine, with at least 0.0625" (1.6 mm) of space between the text and the edge of the spine. Every book varies slightly when bound. Allow for 0.0625" (1.6 mm) variance on either side of the fold lines for your cover

Barcodes
You can upload a cover with or without a barcode. If you choose not to provide your own barcode, we'll automatically place one on your back cover. Learn more about barcodes.

Interior specifications
Page spreads
We require single page files (as opposed to spreads or 2-up files).

Page size
No bleed
Set the page size to your selected trim size (width by height).

Interior full bleed
If you want your images to bleed to the edges of your pages, extend them 0.125" (3.2 mm) beyond the final trim size from the top, bottom, and outer edges of your manuscript.
Format your PDF manuscript at 0.25" (6.4 mm) higher and 0.125" (3.2 mm) wider than your selected trim size in order to print the full bleed area.

Font
Minimum font size: 7 points
All fonts in the interior files should be embedded in the native program before publishing.

Image resolution
Minimum resolution of 300 DPI. There is no set maximum DPI for images, however, images with excessively high resolutions may result in files timing out during processing, or may cause manufacturing delays. We recommend a maximum resolution of 600 DPI, to keep your total file size under 650MB.

Pagination
Order all page numbers sequentially, with even numbers on left pages and odd numbers on the right for the left to right content, and with even numbers on right pages and odd numbers on the left for the right to left content.
You can use Roman numerals to indicate the beginning of the manuscript, and then continue with standard page numbering.
You may continue page numbering from a previous book in a subsequent volume of a series as long as the series name and volume number are clearly labeled.
We allow scanned content with sequential original page numbering clearly visible in the footer of the manuscript file.
Page count
We’ll calculate your page count based on your manuscript file, rounding up to an even number if necessary. The minimum page count is 24 pages, and the maximum page count depends on ink, paper, and trim size options.

Trim size specifications (width x height) with minimum and maximum page counts (kdp.amazon.com)

Trim size specifications (width x height) with minimum and maximum page counts(kdp.amazon.co.jp)

Margins and alignment
Based on your book’s page count, the minimum margin requirements are below:

Page count	Inside (gutter) margins	Outside margins (no bleed)	Outside margins (with bleed)
24 to 150 pages	0.375" (9.6 mm)	at least 0.25" (6.4 mm)	at least 0.375" (9.6mm)
151 to 300 pages	0.5" (12.7 mm)	at least 0.25" (6.4 mm)	at least 0.375" (9.6 mm)
301 to 500 pages	0.625" (15.9 mm)	at least 0.25" (6.4 mm)	at least 0.375" (9.6 mm)
501 to 700 pages	0.75" (19.1 mm)	at least 0.25" (6.4 mm)	at least 0.375" (9.6 mm)
701 to 828 pages	0.875" (22.3 mm)	at least 0.25" (6.4 mm)	at least 0.375" (9.6 mm)

Grayscale fill
If you‘ve selected black ink and white or cream paper for a book containing gray backgrounds, we recommend a minimum grayscale fill of 10%.

Line width
If your book contains lines (i.e., a chart, table or graphic element), give the lines a minimum thickness/weight of 0.75 point or 0.01" (0.3 mm).

Reading direction
For most languages, KDP only supports books formatted to read from left to right (LTR). Currently, we only support right-to-left (RTL) paperback printing in Hebrew, Yiddish and Japanese. To learn more, see our supported languages.

Orientation
All pages and content must be oriented the same way. Pages can contain some upside down text as long as the rest of the page contents are right-side up (e.g., a book of riddles with answers printed upside down on the page).


Was this article helpful? Yes | No
The survey is hosted by Qualtrics, so you'll visit their site to fill it out.
Make more money and reach more readers through Kindle Unlimited. Learn More

KDP Select logo
Total KDP Select Author Earnings

October 2025

 • 

$64.6 Million

Amazon Kindle logo© 1996-2025, Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates. All Rights Reserved.

Amazon and Kindle are trademarks of Amazon.com Inc. or its affiliates.
KDP Select
Earn more money and
reach new readers
KDP Community
Connect with experts
and fellow authors
CreateSpace
Indie print publishing
made easy
ACX
Indie audiobook publishing
made easy
KDP Terms and Conditions  |  Privacy Notice  |  Conditions of Use  |  Contact Us  |  Join Our Team  |  kdp.amazon.co.jp